Add Guide: Obtaining Source IP in Octavia on OVHcloud without Kubernetes CCM (#6704)
ovh/docs: pages/public_cloud/containers_orchestration/managed_kubernetes/Octavia_Tutorial_Add_Proxy_Protocol/guide.en-gb.md

---

> title: 'Obtaining Source IP in Octavia'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Obtaining Source IP in Public Cloud Load Balancer'
```

> excerpt: 'Learn how to configure Octavia to obtain the client source IP in the context of OVHcloud without using Kubernetes CCM.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: 'Learn how to configure OVHcloud Public Cloud Load Balancer to obtain the client source IP.'
```

updated: 2024-08-05
---

## Objective

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The Public Cloud Load Balancer (based on Octavia OpenStack project) provides a lot of features, follow [the guide](https://help.ovhcloud.com/csm/en-gb-public-cloud-network-getting-started-load-balancer?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0050203) to learn more.

```

> **This guide explains how to configure Octavia to obtain the client source IP in the context of OVHcloud without using Kubernetes CCM.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This guide explains how to configure Public Cloud Load Balancer to obtain the client source IP in the context of OVHcloud without using Kubernetes CCM.**
```

## Requirements

> - Access to an OpenStack environment on OVHcloud with Octavia configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to an OpenStack environment on OVHcloud with a Public Cloud Load Balancer configured.
```

Reviewer: Good practice: add a link to an existing guide

> - Administrative rights to create and modify LoadBalancer services.

Reviewer: TODO: precise which rights and where? ^^

- A backend server ready to be used.

## Instructions

### Step 1: Configure the Backend Server on OVHcloud

> Create an instance on OVHcloud and install a web server that will serve as the backend. For example, we will use an NGINX server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide you will create an instance on OVHcloud and install a web server (NGINX) that will serve as the backend.
```

> #### 1. Create an instance on OVHcloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 1. Create an OVHcloud Public Cloud Instance
```

> Access your [OVHcloud Control Panel](/links/manager), go to the "Public Cloud" section and create a new instance. For detailed instructions, see the official documentation: [Creating an instance on OVHcloud](https://docs.ovh.com/en/public-cloud/create-vm/).

Reviewer: Precise which menu? (instances)

#### 2. Install NGINX on the instance

> Connect to the instance via SSH

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connect to the instance via SSH.
```

Reviewer: Add the command.

   
Update packages and install NGINX:

```bash

> sudo dnf install -y nginx

Reviewer: Check if this comand is working on all of the compute instances OS.
If not, precise the command for the OS.

```

#### 3. Configure NGINX to display request information

Modify the NGINX configuration to display request information, including the client's IP address and headers:

```bash

> sudo nano /etc/nginx/nginx.conf

Reviewer: Check the tool to use to keep consistency/homogeous (emacs, vi, nano...).

```

Add the following directives in the `http` block:

> ```nginx

Reviewer: nginx if it's working, else bash

    user nginx;
    worker_processes auto;
    error_log /var/log/nginx/error.log;
    pid /run/nginx.pid;

    events {
    worker_connections 1024;
    }

>     http {

Reviewer: remove useless lines

        include /etc/nginx/mime.types;
        default_type application/octet-stream;
        log_format main '$remote_addr - $remote_user [$time_local] "$request" '
                          '$status $body_bytes_sent "$http_referer" '
                          '"$http_user_agent" "$http_x_forwarded_for"';
        access_log /var/log/nginx/access.log main;

        sendfile on;
        tcp_nopush on;
        tcp_nodelay on;
        keepalive_timeout 65;
        types_hash_max_size 2048;

        server {
        listen 80;
        server_name localhost;

            location / {
                add_header X-Forwarded-For $http_x_forwarded_for;
                add_header X-Forwarded-Proto $http_x_forwarded_proto;
                return 200 "Client IP: $http_x_forwarded_for\nHeaders: $http_x_forwarded_proto\n";
                }
        }
    }

> 

Reviewer: remove blank lines

```

Restart NGINX to apply the changes:

```bash
sudo systemctl restart nginx
```

### Step 2: Create the LoadBalancer with HTTP Protocol on OVHcloud

> #### 1. Create the Octavia LoadBalancer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 1. Create the Public Cloud Load Balancer
```

> Access the OpenStack interface on OVHcloud, then create a LoadBalancer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access the OpenStack interface on OVHcloud, then create a Public Cloud LoadBalancer:
```

| Field               | Value                                |
+---------------------+--------------------------------------+
| admin_state_up      | True                                 |
| ...                 | ...                                  |
| vip_address         | 192.168.0.57                         |
| ...                 | ...                                  |
+---------------------+--------------------------------------+
```

#### 2. Create a backend pool

```bash
openstack loadbalancer pool create --name <pool-name> --lb-algorithm ROUND_ROBIN --listener <listener-name> --protocol HTTP
```

**Example Result:**

```plaintext
+----------------------+--------------------------------------+
| Field                | Value                                |
+----------------------+--------------------------------------+
| admin_state_up       | True                                 |
| ...                  | ...                                  |
| id                   | <pool_id>                            |
| ...                  | ...                                  |
+----------------------+--------------------------------------+
```

> #### 3. Add members to the pool (the backend instances)

Reviewer: Add in requierements sections: create 2 instances

```bash
openstack loadbalancer member create --subnet-id <subnet-id> --address <instance-ip-1> --protocol-port <protocol-port> <pool-id>
openstack loadbalancer member create --subnet-id <subnet-id> --address <instance-ip-2> --protocol-port <protocol-port> <pool-id>
```

**Example Result:**

```plaintext
+---------------------+--------------------------------------+
| Field               | Value                                |
+---------------------+--------------------------------------+
| address             | 192.168.0.27                         |
| ...                 | ...                                  |
+---------------------+--------------------------------------+
```

```plaintext
+---------------------+--------------------------------------+
| Field               | Value                                |
+---------------------+--------------------------------------+
| address             | 192.168.0.96                         |
| ...                 | ...                                  |
+---------------------+--------------------------------------+
```

### Step 3: Verify the Configuration

> #### 1. Get the VIP address of the LoadBalancer

Reviewer: we can precise what is VIP ;)

```bash

> openstack loadbalancer show my-loadbalancer -c vip_address -f value

Reviewer: example: 

VIP_ADDRESS=$(openstack loadbalancer show my-loadbalancer -c vip_address -f value)
echo $VIP_ADDRESS

```

**Example Result:**

```plaintext
192.168.0.57
```

#### 2. Send an HTTP request to the LoadBalancer's VIP address

```bash

> curl http://192.168.0.57

Reviewer: example:

curl $VIP_ADDRESS

```

**Example Result:**

```plaintext
Client IP: <your_source_ip>
Headers: <forwarded_headers>
```

## Go further

- [Creating and connecting to your first Public Cloud instance](/pages/public_cloud/compute/public-cloud-first-steps/).

> - [Managing subnets in OpenStack](https://docs.openstack.org/neutron/latest/admin/deploy-ovs-selfservice.html){.external}.

Reviewer: It could be better if we can add a link to our guides
